# azure-databricks

1. [ Description. ](#desc)
2. [ Pricing. ](#pricing)
    1. [ Pricing Tiers. ](#pricing-tiers)
    2. [ Workloads. ](#pricing-workloads)
    3. [ Analyze costs. ](#pricing-costs)
  
<a name="desc"></a>
## 1. Description


<a name="pricing"></a>
## 2. Pricing
All details with regards to pricing could be found here: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/databricks/
Below article explains some of the details and summarizes the most important differences.

Cost related to Databricks usage depends on:
- DBUs (Databricks Units) - Each running cluster node generates DBUs according to its size. Available in *pay-as-you-go* and *pre-purchased* offerings.
- VMs (Virtual Machines, Disks, Network, Public IP Addresses)

Overall cost of single job is calculated with formula:

`cost = TW * DBU * s / 3600`

where:
- TW - rate for type of *workload* and *tier* being used
- DBU - amount of DBUs generated by all nodes
- s* - time of the job execution (including cluster warmp-up if it was not running)

(*) Applies only for automated-cluster (single cluster dedicated for single job). For interactive-clusters (multiple jobs can be submitted to cluster) the cost is calculated for the time cluster is running (its every node).

<a name="pricing-tiers"></a>
### 2.1 Pricing Tiers
There are 2 different pricing tiers offered by Azure Databricks:
* Standard
* Premium

The main difference is that with Standard tier you will not get:
* RBAC for any of the objects (everyone is an admin)
* Credential Passthrough for clusters is not available (ACLs on ADLS mean nothing)
* JDBC/ODBC Endpoint Authentication (no authentication to HIVE)

You may downgrade/upgrade pricing tier by redeploying Databricks Workspace with the same name (using the same ARM template) but with another pricing tier.

<a name="pricing-workloads"></a>
### 2.2 Workloads

* Engineering Light
* Engineering
* Analytics

<a name="pricing-costs"></a>
### 2.3 Analyze costs

As mentioned above Databricks cost can be divided into Databricks generated costs (DBUs) and Cluster costs (VMs). **By default Azure doesn't provide provide both in one place**. You will find Databricks costs related to the Resource Group where the workspace is hosted. However Cluster costs are available with managed Resource Group, where VMs are hosted (Portal -> Databricks resource -> Overview -> Managed Resource Group).

#### DBUs & Workloads
Cost analytics provides split into Workspace / Pricing Tier / Workload Type granularity. **There is no straightforward information which cluster or job generated specific amount of DBUs.**

Example cost summary:

Workspace  | Meter  | Cost
------------- | ------------- | -------------
databricks-workspace-name  | standard data analytics dbu | $14.51
databricks-workspace-name  | standard data engineering dbu | $31.21

#### Clusters

Managed resource group offers detailed break down of generated cost. Each node (VM, Disk etc.) contains set of *default_tags* that indicate which cluster or instance of this cluster (same interactive cluster terminated and started later) was used. 

Example cost summary:

ResourceId  | Meter  | Cost | Tags
------------- | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
.../databricks-rg-fszfgsdf/.../virtualmachines/ejifs9u38u829  | d3 v2/ds3 v2 | $2.51 | clusterid:3452-4262775-honey2415
.../databricks-rg-fszfgsdf/.../disks/293ut9fds9idf  | p15 disks | $0.51 | clusterid:3452-4262775-honey2415

#### Cost summary
Due to above, you can easily chargeback costs for you automated-clusters (engineering workload) for any job. However this data is not sufficient to chargeback costs to the job level for interactive-clusters.
